So we've seen in the last lecture that WordPress outputs responsive images. So let's in this lecture take a
brief look on what responsive images are so that we can understand what's going on and then we can
modify the responsive images that WordPress outputs.
So I'm gonna be using the website called "placeholder" where you give it some sizes in the URL and
it will return an image with this size, right?
And let's now go to the header and let's write a normal image tag.
So an IMG tag can have a "src" attribute.
So let's give it a URL from placeholder and an alternative text.
So this will be a normal image. A responsive image however is an image that can load different image sizes
depending on some conditions.
Right?
So we have two attributes. We have the "srcset" attribute and we also have the "sizes" attribute.
So let's see what each one of these mean.
So the "srcset" attribute is basically a list of all image sizes available for a certain image.
Right?
So let's say we have our image here and let's say we also have some other image sizes.
So let's say we have an image of  maybe 320x150 and another one maybe 512x250,
some arbitrary numbers. And these should be "," separated.
And also after each URL you should explicitly mention the width of this image.
So this one is 320 and then you write "w" for width.
And this one is 512w.
And this one is 1200w.
Right?
So we now have different image sizes for the same image.
So how will the image tag decide which one of these to load?
This is the role of the "sizes" attribute.
So inside the "sizes" attribute we define some conditions. And these conditions are normal CSS media queries.
So you can have "max-width: 320px".
So here you define a condition. So if the screen width
is 320 pixels or less,
the width of the image will be let's say 300 pixels, right?
And let's say you have another condition.
So ",".
And if the screen width is maybe less than 480 our image size maybe will be maybe 460.
Right?
And then finally we have a fallback condition. If none of these conditions are met our image size will
be 1200 pixels.
So what will happen now is if the screen with a 320 or less,
you mentioned that your image width will be 300 pixels. So the image tag will search in the "srcset"
attribute
which one of these is closest to the 300 pixels and it'll probably be the 320.
So it will load this image, right?
And so on.
And the great thing about this is here you can use any CSS unit. So you can use "%" you can use "vw".
You can also use the "calc" function.
So what you can do here is very flexible and we'll see actually in our template how to create our own sizes
attribute.
But let's for now I see this.
So now the screen width is 1300 something so the image loaded is 1200.
So let's now decrease the screen width to less than 320.
It's now 297.
It's in the bottom left of the screen and let's reload.
And now the 320x150 images loaded.
Let's increase the screen width until it meets the second condition which is 480.
So less than 480 and larger than 320.
We mentioned that the image width will be 460 so it'll probably go and find the closest one which will
be the 512.
Right? So let's see now. Let's go.
Larger than 420.
And as you can see the image changed to the 512. And if you go more than 480 it will go to the 1200
image
Let's refresh now and we have the 1200 image loaded. If we go down the image won't change because
it's pointless to actually load a smaller image when you already have a large image loaded.
So this will only happen when you are in a small screen and then you go up, right? So now you know that.
Let's now go to one of the WorldPress images.
Let's see what WordPress does in the responsive image attributes. So let's actually copy this and paste it
to see things better.
So now the "src" attribute will not be important.
It will just be used as a fallback if anything went wrong here.
So let's ignore the "src" attribute and let's go to the "srcset".
And what WordPress will do is that it will list here all the image sizes.
And that's exactly what we need.
So we have the 1200 width image which is the custom image that we defined.
We have the medium 300.
We have the medium_large and we have the large.
So this is perfect.
That's exactly what we need.
We don't need to edit anything here in the "srcset".
And the "sizes" however WordPress will add a condition.
So if max-width is less than or equal 1200 it will assume that the image will take 100 vw which
is the width of the screen, the full width of the screen.
Otherwise it will just be 1200.
So let's take a look at, one of our. Let's go to this post.
So here for example we have an image and this image have a size large. And large has a width of
1024,
right?
So WordPress assumes that as long as the screen width is larger than the image width, you'll need to load 1024 version.
And if the screen width is less than the 1024, it will assume that the image will cover the full screen width.
So it adds here the 100vw. But the case is that WordPress adds may not be optimize to your theme, right?
In our case here we have a content width of 800, this width.
So we don't actually necessarily need to load the 1024 version if the screen size is larger than 1024.
In our case actually the image will have a width of 800 until the screen size is less than a certain
width.
It will start actually cover the whole screen except these margins and paddings, right?
So our case is  actually a lot more complicated than what WordPress did here.
So we need to write our own sizes attribute and calculate this depending on which page you are in and
which layout
you are using.
So for a blog post for example, we can have a blog with a sidebar remember. And this will be a totally
different case.
So let's in the next couple of lectures learn how to create our own sizes attribute.